PAUL LEWIS: OK,
good stuff-- I've
managed to do a bit of
coding as well today,
which is always handy.
Because towards the
back end of this week,
I'm actually speaking
at a conference.
So I kind of got to get a move
on and get some stuff done.
So mostly what
I've been doing is
kind of setting up a little
bit more infrastructure,
just making sure that kind
of everything's all set
and I've got, hopefully,
a really solid foundation
that I don't need to change
too much on the way through.
Mainly what I did is, I don't
know if I mentioned it before,
but basically, what I
had was I was serving up
the static files.
And I did all the hashing
stuff, which was cool.
But everything else,
the kind of non-static,
was always going to
the same index.html.
So what I've done is I've just
updated that little bit of code
now where I match against
everything that kind of came
after devsummit.
And then I'm looking for
that particular thing
in the sections.
So like, for example,
location.html-- so
if you go to
devsummit/location, you're
going to get location.html,
which extends the base
HTML in the template
here, which basically
has the header of a block for
the content, which is actually
then filled out by that, by
the actual section, and then
the footer.
All fine-- that's working
just as I'd hoped.
So that's one thing that's
definitely changed in here.
Other than that-- oh
yeah, a lot of changes
in the-- in the buildfile,
we've got a lot of scripts.
I wanted to avoid this time
doing a full-on, gulp grunt,
whatever build system.
I thought, most of
the time, I'm actually
not doing anything
overly exciting.
I want to use SAS,
because I know
I'll want to probably make all
my sizes based off a baseline.
So it's an eight-pixel
baseline grid.
And then off the top of
that, I figure, well,
if I've got a few variables
or whatever, SAS is probably
going to the right thing.
But I'm still going to
keep it fairly minimal.
Here, though, I've got an
inline CSS and a linked CSS.
And this is something
I'm trying out.
This may not work.
And it may work.
And I really don't know, so
blah, bear with me, I suppose.
Right.
What I'm doing-- I'll see if
I can explain this quickly.
Let's see-- so I have notionally
inline CSS and linked CSS.
So in the page, for
example, there's
going to be-- it
is in the header.
There is the inline
styles, right?
So this is the kind of-- I want
to get a fast first render.
And I want some inline styles.
So what goes into
the inline styles?
Basically, it's-- you know,
I have a couple of standard
import-y, include-y things.
And then I've got
specific styles
at the moment just
for the header.
And my theory on
the inlining styles
is that I want basically things
like dimensions and color,
and that's it.
As in if it's like a white
block or a green block,
that's the thing
I want to reserve.
That's all I care about.
And pretty much everything
else will probably
be, like, sort of font
colors or whatever,
but no kind of background
images or any of that.
That can come in later.
This is like reserving
the space for content.
And I know the
height of the header.
I know the height
of the masthead.
I should be able to
do all of that stuff
without actually
doing anything else.
In the background, once--
so all the inlining stuff
is in one place.
And I'm separating out my header
into a full and an inline.
And the inline is just basically
like-- you see the baseline,
with a background, a box shadow.
These are just
sort of placeholder
while I was just
testing the theory.
And then the full one is
like-- it takes the inline,
but then it adds the stuff on.
And I've been in two minds
as to whether I duplicate
the inline stuff here.
Because that CSS
is going to exist.
But I have a feeling
that later on, it's
going to be useful
to have something
with the full styles in it.
And I can't quite put my
finger on why just yet.
I think it might be to do with
the hot swapping of sections.
So anyway, so I've
got the inline styles.
And then in the-- let's
see- in the scripts-- yeah.
I've got this,
where I load styles.
And basically, I
load the styles.
And you can see it's the
same kind of hashing system
that I used previously
for this JavaScript.
That's still going to work.
This is going through the
templates in your system.
It will convert this to a
[? CDS ?] dot whatever dot CSS.
And in the load styles, I
basically do an [? XHR ?].
And then when I load it, I
know it's in the HTTP cache.
And it should have
the-- whatever
I gave it-- like a one-year
caching time on it.
Then I can inject an actual
style sheet into the head
with that URL.
It'll make the request, which
will be satisfied from the HTTP
cache.
And we should be good to go.
So that is what happens.
So just to show you, the
inline stuff for the header
doesn't have, say, a color.
But the full one has
rebeccapurple as the thing.
Actually, I'll tell you what.
I'll change it to
red, which won't work,
because I don't have it
built. So I can actually
do npn run build.
I could do a watch.
That would actually--
oh, it failed.
Of course it failed.
Well done, me.
Terrific.
Yeah, it's because
I didn't-- OK.
Oh, git commit-- "Changes."
Just as well, this isn't
the-- oh yeah, that's fine.
OK.
Just as well, I
didn't actually-- see,
I might change that.
Because that was annoying.
Right.
There you go.
You see, it goes red now anyway.
And then the
version's been bumped.
And so by default, we
have the-- la la la--
no, I don't want that.
I have the inline styles like
so, which has been squished,
and compressed, and
everything else.
And then there's the
link rel="stylesheet,"
which actually has
all the other stuff.
And so that you can see
that the actual color is
set to red that you inherited
from, but it's still there.
So there you go.
That's kind of what I'm
currently doing, giving that
a whirl, seeing how that goes.
The next step is to actually
start for real styling
based on the mocks and
actually start fleshing it out,
which I will be building--
while I design desktop first,
I actually build mobile first.
And I have in my head
the mocks or roughly
what's going to happen,
but I am definitely
going to be winging some
of it as I figure out
exactly how this should all go.
So there you go.
Good days, bad
days-- every day's
interesting when
you're building in it.
So there you go.
Thanks for coming along
on the journey as always.
And don't forget your subscribe.
They make me say it.
They don't make me say it.
I want you to
subscribe, because I
know there's loads of
really interesting stuff
on the channel.
So yeah.
You can find me on
the Twitter if you
want to chat, @aerotwist.
And of course, you can leave
comments below as well.
Catch you probably
in the next entry.
[MUSIC PLAYING]